Day 10

Task in project
1. Customization of SOlr
2. Create 
3. Dataload in Catentry table
	> field3 and field4
4. Add one attribute in the product 
	> "gift wrappable"
5. Custom Order message
6. Custom User registration
	> add new input in user register form (favorite food, and color)
7. 

mARCH 20
 > 2 hours session about the capstone project


Today agenda
1. Commerce Composer
2. Migration from V8 to V9


WCS V9 Commerce Composer
 
PLP
 > product listing page
 > ex: Catalog group product listing (Women's Apparel)
 
PDP
 > product display page
 > page that display product information
 > ex: Synergy Athletic Shoes product display page
 
HCL Commerce Composer
 > the Commerce Composer tool gives you the freedom to quickly create and assemble the contents of your store
 
HCL Commerce Composer workflow
1. Choose a page, or create a new one
2. Select a layout template
3. Create a layout for the page by adding widgets and defining their contents
4. 

HCL Commerce Composer flow
1. To start composing your page, choose an existing store page that requires a new layout, such as 

Workspace Task Group Approver
 > only have read only to the contents
 
SU URL
 > url that is optimizing for search engine
 
Hero banner
E-Marketing Spot
Merchandising Associations
 > recommendation for related products for upsell
 
Page handled by the Commerce composer
 > home page
 > catalog entry page
 > sub catalog group page
 > product image page
 
Why not all page is created in the Commerce composer
 > the customization needs to be done in the source code level
 
 
 -- for widgets:
--Contains information about all widgets registered on the system
select * from plwidgetdef;
-- description of widget
select * from PLWIDGETDEFDESC ;
--This table contains the association of widgets to page layouts.
select * from plwidget;

-- delete from plwidgetdef where identifier in ('UVWelcomeUser','UVShipToBillTo');
-- delete from plwidgetdef where identifier in ('UVShipToBillTo');

-- page layout
-- main table for page layout
select * from pagelayout;
-- relation of page layout to parent page layout
select * from PLTEMPLATEREL;

-- what widgets are part of page layout. Main page layout also exists in PLWIDGETDEF table. So this table will contain main template for any page layout and all widgets that are part of this new layout. Also tells which widget resides in which slot.
select * from plwidget;
-- page layout clildren i.e widgets part of page layout
select * from plwidgetrel;

-- number and details of slots in an layout
select * from PLWIDGETSLOT ;


NOTES:
1. Dynamic widgets should not be cached (ex: inventory stock widget)

Open Management Center
Manage Stores --> Commerce COmposer
Layout --> new layout


WCS V9 Migration 

1. We need to convert all of our calls to REST


Struts to Spring - View
 > for Struts, we use the Store ent id, but with Spring, we will use Store name
 
OptCounter field is a mandatory field for WCS V9 (NON NULLABLE VALUE)

If we change the class anme of the AccessBean, we will need to change everything that references the old package and classname


256 bits password in V9, 32 bits password for V8




Chat history
Francis Jan S Dimata 1:01 PM
yes
good afternoon sir
Francis Jan S Dimata  to  Everyone 1:16 PM
sir?
can you repeat the question
Francis Jan S Dimata  to  Everyone 1:17 PM
not yet sir
i'm currently processing to create 5-6 promotion
sorry I don't have camera and mic right now sir
Jeorge Emprese  to  Everyone 2:17 PM
Shopping cart
Domingo C. Macunay Jr.  to  Everyone 2:17 PM
menu
Richard Anderson Capua  to  Everyone 2:17 PM
Password Reset page
John Tristan Cometa  to  Everyone 2:17 PM
account profile page
You  to  Everyone 2:17 PM
Register User page
Richard Anderson Capua  to  Everyone 2:17 PM
About Us page
Ma Mercedita D Bueno  to  Everyone 2:18 PM
Log in page
Gaurav  to  Everyone 2:23 PM
-- for widgets:
--Contains information about all widgets registered on the system
select * from plwidgetdef;
-- description of widget
select * from PLWIDGETDEFDESC ;
--This table contains the association of widgets to page layouts.
select * from plwidget;

-- delete from plwidgetdef where identifier in ('UVWelcomeUser','UVShipToBillTo');
-- delete from plwidgetdef where identifier in ('UVShipToBillTo');

-- page layout
-- main table for page layout
select * from pagelayout;
-- relation of page layout to parent page layout
select * from PLTEMPLATEREL;

-- what widgets are part of page layout. Main page layout also exists in PLWIDGETDEF table. So this table will contain main template for any page layout and all widgets that are part of this new layout. Also tells which widget resides in which slot.
select * from plwidget;
-- page layout clildren i.e widgets part of page layout
select * from plwidgetrel;

-- number and details of slots in an layout
select * from PLWIDGETSLOT ;
Gaurav  to  Everyone 2:46 PM
Open Management Center
Manage Stores --> Commerce COmposer
Layout --> new layout
https://help.hcltechsw.com/commerce/9.1.0/management-center/tutorial/tpz_tutindex.html
All Layout--> any page , six slots
name for layout
add value for priority