CSS Part 5 Text related Property


Text position related property

text-align
	> align the text to a specific position
	> text-align can take multiple values
		a. left		- aligns the text to the left
				- default value
		b. right	- aligns the text to the right
		c. center	- centers the text
		e. justify	- streches the lines so that each line has equal width (like in newspaper and magazine)
		f. initial	- set property value to its default
		g. inherit	- inherit the parent's value




line-height
	> control the height of each line, or specifically, the SPACE IN BETWEEN each line
	> can take the general unit measurements as value (px, em, rem, vh, vw, etc)


letter-spacing
	> controls how much space is in between the characters
	> can also take the general unit of measurements as value (px, em, rem, vh, vw, etc.)



word-spacing
	> controls how much space is in between the words
	> again, can also take the general units of measurement in html



text-transform
	> controls the capitalization of text
	> can take one of the several possible values
		a. none		- no capitalization
				- the text renders as it is
				- default value if property is not defined
		b. capitalize	- transform the first character of each word to uppercase
		c. uppercase	- transform all characters to uppercase
		d. lowercase	- transform all characters to lowercase
		e. initial	- set the property value to its default
		f. inherit	- inherits this property from its parent element




text-decoration
	> can take one or more values based on three parameters
		1. text-decoration-line
			> can have one or more of these several possible values
				a. none		- default value
						- specifies no line for the text-decoration
				b. underline	- specifies that a line will be displayed under the text
				c. overline	- specifies that a line will be displayed over the text
				d. line-through	- specifies that a line will be displayed through the text
		2. text-decoration-color
			> can be given value that represents color (name, rgb, rgba, hex)
		3. text-decoration-style
			> can have one of the several possible values
				a. solid	- default value
						- the line will display as a single line
				b. double	- the line will display as double line
				c. dotted	- the line will display as dotted line
				d. dashed	- the line will display as a dashed line
				e. wavy		- the line will display as a wavy line
	> we can also pass either 'initial' or 'inherit' for each parameter


EX:
h1{
	text-decoration="underline wavy red"
}

	This will make the h1 have an red wavy underline in it
