21 Advantages and disadvantages of deployment models



Public cloud
Advantages:
1. Scales well
	> to scale, you just have to "rent" more resources
2. Pay as you go pricing
	> you only need to think about the cost of resources you are using at the moment
3. Low initial costs
	> it allows anybody to start an application
	> reduces the barrier of entry for cloud consumption

Disadvantages:
1. Security concerns
	> because of resource pooling, the hardware is NOT UNIQUELY alloted to you
2. Data regulations
	> each country have their own data regulations
	> this regulations applies to the servers located in the country as well
	> though, this responsible falls to the Cloud providers so make sure they meet this regulations
	> ex: servers must be certified, though this responsibility falls to the Cloud Providers themselves (AWS, Azure)
3. Cloud provider has the primary control
	> when using services of a specific Cloud Provider, "Vendor locking" may occur
	> Vendor locking refers to your applications being tied to a specific vendor (ex: application only works with AWS DynamoDB)
	> With Vendor locking, you may face issues where you need to migrate to another Cloud Provider and may face 
 
  


Private Cloud
Advantages:
1. Orgs have full control
	> since they own it, they have full control of its customization and configurations
2. Orgs can meet the strictest security requirements
3. Orgs can meet the strictest data compliance requirements
	> for 2 and 3, since they have full control on the private Cloud, they can ensure that they meet the needed security and data compliance requirements
4. Orgs can align the cloud with the org's current model

Disadvantages:
1. Scaling is a challenge (similar as on-prem)
2. Initial costs is high
3. Provisioning can be time consuming
4. Need staffing to manage infrastructure




Hybrid cloud:
Advantages:
1. Strategy to move to public cloud from on-prem, instead of full public cloud
2. Flexible with costs and regulations
3. Supports legacy workflows and architectures


Disadvantages
1. Extra complexity when handling on-prem and cloud architecture
2. Costs can be higher than going all in on one
3. Usually a Transitionary model (usually, from on-prem to cloud)



Other models
1. Community cloud
	> accessible to a community/industry
	> ex: medical related industry where medical information can be exposed for all medical institutions
2. Multicloud
	> multiple public or private cloud
	> typically done by large companies to avoid vendor locking



What to choose?
 > Real world: Depends on the regulations and the organization momentum and general consensus of moving to Cloud
 > Certifications: Public cloud (more often than not!)