00. Spring framework overview - JavaBrains

Spring framework
 > a framework to help us develop enterprise Java application with ease by providing patterns and structure
 > Spring framework provides many things, this includes but not limited to
	1. Application Context and Dependency Injection
	2. Data Access
	3. Spring MVC



I. Handling interrelated dependencies among objects
Problem
1. Object needs to create new instance of their dependencies on their own
 	- Some of these object dependencies may only contain business logic which means we can just share an instance of this throughout the Application
	- we can use Singleton pattern to solve this, but its cumbersome and adds more code
2. Object graph is very complex and hard to manage

Solution
1. With Application Context, Spring can hold instances of these Object which we can add or inject as dependencies to another object
	- Spring's Application Context also handles the management and creation of the object instances
	- Also handles the connection/dependencies of the Object instances inside the App Context
2. Dependency Injection
	- with dependency injection, the Object doesnt need to create the dependencies instances on their own
	- instead, the Object just PULL from the Application Context the dependencies that it needs
	- this process is called Dependency injection


II. Data Access
Problem
1. Database connectivity using the JDBC is cumbersome
	> we also need to configure the connection, writing querying (that we will most likely use again), and transaction management
Solution
2. Spring provides several Data Access API and mechanism to handle the following features
	> connectivity, querying, transaction management
 	> examples include 
		1. Spring JDBC - to provide an abstraction layer to JDBC
		2. Spring ORM - for object relational mapping like JPA, Hibernate

III. Web
Problem
1. Creating Dynamic web page applications and REST APIs is hard in native J2EE
	> we are limited to uses only Servlets and JSP to do this
Solution
1. Spring MVC
	> spring Mvc provides an easy way to create dynamic web page apps and REST APIs
 		- behind the scene, it also uses Servlet and JSP,
	> some of the components include WebSocket, Servlet, Web



Other modules included in Spring
1. AOP (spring-aop) provides an aspect-oriented programming implementation that can be used when creating applications.
2. Aspects (spring-aspects) enables direct integration with the AspectJ programming extension by the eclipse foundation.
3. Test (spring-test) is the Spring test module that supports unit and integration testing with JUnit and TestNG.



Spring Projects
1. Spring Cloud 
2. Spring Security