65.2 RHCSA RHEL 8 - Practice Exam - Questions

Exam
 > Ensure all tasks are implemented with firewalld and SELinux enabled. 
 > Your server should be able to survive a reboot. Good luck!

1. Interrupt the boot process and reset the root password. Change it to "wander" to gain access to the system
2. Repos are avilable from the repo server at http://repo.eigth.example.com/BaseOS and http://repo.eight.example.com/AppStream for you to use during the exam
3. The system time should be set to your (or nearest to you) timezone and ensure the NTP sync is configured
4. Add the following secondary IP addresses statically to your current running interface. Do this in a way that doesn't compromise your existing settings:
	a. IPV4 - 10.0.0.5/24
	b. IPV6 - fd01::100/64
5. Enable packet forwarding on system1. This should persist after reboot.
6. System1 should boot into the multiuser target by default and boot messages should be present (not silenced)
7. Create a new 2GB volume group named "vgprac"
8. Create a 500MB logical volume named "lvprac" inside the "vgprac" volume group
9. The "lvprac" logical volume should be formatted with the xfs filesystem and mount persistently on the /mnt/lvprac directory
10. Extend the xfs filesystem on "lvprac" by 500MB
11. Use the appropriate utility to create a 5TiB thin provisioned volume
12. Configure a basic web server that displays "Welcome to the web server" once connected to it. Ensure the firewall allows the http/https services
13. Find all files that are larger than 5MB in the /etc directory and copy them to /find/largefiles
14. Write a script named awesome.sh in the root directory on system1
	a. If "me" is given as an argument, then the script should output "Yes, I'm awesome"
	b. If "them" is given as an argument, then the script should output "Okay, they are awesome"
	c. If the argument is empty or anything else is given, the script should output "Usage ./awesome.sh me|them"
15. Create users phil, laura, steward, and kevin
	a. All new users should have a file named "Welcome" in their home folder after account creation
	b. All user passwords should expire after 60 days and be at least 8 characters in length
	c. phil and laura should be a part of the "accounting" group. If the group doesn't already exist, create it
	d. steward and kevin should be part of the "marketing" group. If the group doesn't already exist, create it
16. Only members of accounting group should have access to the "/accounting"
17. Only members of the marketing group should have access to the "/marketing" directory. Make steward the owner of this directory. Make the marketing group the group owner of the "/marketing" directory
18. New files should be owned by the group owner and only the file creator should have permissions to delete their own files
19. Create a cron job that writes "This practice exam was easy and I'm ready to ace my RHCSA" to /var/log/messages at 12pm only on weekdays