007 Sketching User Flows 4

Screen States
 > focuses in drawing the entire screen for different interaction
 > ex: user comes to a search page, clicks on a search bar, and an overlay pops up, they type and get the suggested searches


Creating Screen States sketches
Example: Home page
1. Intially for home page, we might want to have the following components
	> search bar
	> profile image thumbnail
	> a card carousel that list the saved products alongside the info like name, price, and additional info 
	> interest, where its a list of categories that user might like
		- this list will be a card again, with image and name related to the said category (sport, videogame, fitness, fashion, etc)
2. When the search bar is clicked, we will modify the home page
	> show an overlay (can add animation like drop from up to down)
	> we will need to take account of the keyboard that may pop up in mobile devices
	> while we type, a list of suggested search queries will pop uSportsp	
		- similar to autosuggest/autocomplete feature
		- this will help the user when it comes to searching
3. When a search query is chosen, the screen will then show the search result of the query
	> we will still maintain the search bar, but now we have a back button and filter button on its side
	> we might also want to show the number of result items to the user
	> and finally, we will list the search result in terms of "cards"
	> this card will contain brief product information like product image, name, rating, price
		- we can also add heart icon in the card, so that we can add the product as "saved/favorite"
4. When a product in search result is clicked, the screen will change to the product details page
5. When a product's heart icon is clicked, the saved/favorite page is shown with the saved product added
6. When the filter button is click, we might also show an overlay
	> the filter overlay may be shown animated in the screen from top -> bottom or from sides like a sidebar
	> the filter overlay might contain filter options like price, date added, reviews


NOTES:
1. In sketching Screen States, think about what are different types of features and different types of element that this page should have
2. For mobile screens, we prefer to have the buttons larger
3. We should incorporate motion into screen state changes early on
4. Main point of sketching is to just be lean, be agile, and dont get bogged down by the details	
	> ignore things like dribble or where you see like really high definition

	