07 Query Rules - Merchandising

Use case of Query rules - Merchandising
 > typically in search on e-commerce websites, business needs sometimes have to take over purely textual ranking
 > Query rules give this kind of granular control and in this video, we will illustrate:
	1. How to promote a single product
	2. Promote a specific brand
	3. Add a promotional banner 
	
	
Creating a Query rule
1. Go to the Indices panel
2. Select the Index you want to add Query rules to
3. Go to the Query rules tab
4. Click "Add a New Rule"


Promote a single/multiple product
1. Create a new Query rule
2. In the Condition
	> set the condition of query to "Contains"
	> then pass the query keyword where if someone add it in the query, we will add the product to promote in the search result
		- ex: "camera"
	> for context, leave it as is
		- it will applied to all context (throughout the index)
3. In the Consequences
	> click Add Consequences
	> select Promote a Result
	> look for the actual Product (or Algolia record in general) to promote
	> we can also set its position in the result list (ex: 1st, 2nd, 3rd, etc)
	> note that we can add more than one Algolia record to the result list
4. Save the Query rule
5. Now, if we search in Algolia using the selected query condition (ex: "camera"), it will show the products that we added in the result to promote


Promoting a brand
1. Remove the previous Query rule you created earlier
2. Create a new Query rule
3. In the Condition
	> set the condition of query to "Contains"
	> then pass the query keyword where if someone add it in the query, we will add the product to promote in the search result
		- ex: "camera"
	> for context, leave it as is
		- it will applied to all context (throughout the index)
4. In the Consequences
	> click Add Consequences
	> select Add Query Parameter
	> add "optionalFilters", and pass "brand:GoPro"
	> this will prioritize the records with "brand" attribute of "GoPro" to be added in results
4. Save the Query rule
5. Now, if we search in Algolia using the selected query condition (ex: "camera"), it will show first the product/record whose attribute matches the one we pass in "optionalFilters"



Add a Promotional Banner
1. Work on top of the Query rule for promoting brand
2. Leave condition as is
3. In the Consequences
	> click Add Consequences
	> select Display Specific info
	> pass the custom JSON string that you want to add in the Algolia search query response body
		- ex: {"banner_img": "banner_camera.jpg"}
4. Save the Query rule
5. Now, if we search in Algolia using the selected query condition (ex: "camera"), the response from the Algolia search API will contain additional information, which we can use in frontend to display banner
		