70 Auto Scaling Groups ASG Hands On

Clean up
1. Terminate all EC2 instances we created earlier for LoadBalancer

Creating Auto Scaling Group Steps
1. Choose launch template or configuration
2. Choose instance launch
3. Configure advanced options (optional)
4. Configure group size and scaling policies (optional)
5. Add notifications
6. Add tags
7. Review


Choose launch template or configuration
1. Go to EC2 Dashboard > Auto Scaling section > Auto scaling group
2. Create an Auto Scaling Group
3. Name: DemoASG
4. Create a Launch Template
	> this refers to the template used to define how to launch EC2 instances within the ASG
	> similar to creating EC2 template
5. Creating the Launch Template
	> name: DemoLaunchTemplate
	> same EC2 as before, which exposes SSH and HTTP, and a User Data script which runs an Apache Webserver listening to port 80 with a modified index.html
6. Select the Launch template created in the ASG and click Next



Choose instance launch
1. In Network
	> choose the default VPC
	> choose all the AZ and subnets available
2. Instance type requirements
	> choose the default one created by the Launch Template created earlier



Configure advanced options (optional)
1. In Load balancing
 	> choose 'Attach to an existing load balancer'
2. in Attach to an existing load balancer
	> select 'Choose from your load balancer target groups'
	> Then select the target group created earlier 'demo-tg'
3. In Health checks
	> select both EC2 and ELB for Health check type



Configure group size and scaling policies (optional)
1. For Group size
	> Desired capacity - 2
	> Minimum capacity - 1
	> Maximum capacity - 4
2. Click Next


Add notifications - Skipped
Add tags - Skipped for now




Checking newly created ASG
1. Go to EC2 Dashboard > Auto scaling >  Auto Scaling groups
2. Select the new ASG
3. Check the Instance management tab
	> we should initially see TWO EC2 instances
4. Check the EC2 instance dashboard as well to check for this
5. Check the Target group 'demo-tg', where the EC2 instances from ASG earlier should be included as well
6. Check the Loadbalancer
	> use the DNS name in the browser
	> we should be able to access the EC2 instances




Healing capabilities of ASG
 > this refers to making sure ASG maintains the specific number of instances
 > ex: if the current instances amount is lower than the desired amount, it will create new instances to match it
1. Terminate one of the instances
2. Check the ASG 
3. Wait for a couple of minutes
4. Check the ASG Activity tab
	> we should see the termination event and the instance creation event
5. Check the EC2 instance dashboard
	> it should now much the desired instance number




NOTES:
1. Make sure that the Target Group you selected in the ASG creation is ASSOCIATED with specific Elastic Load Balancer
	> else, you need to create a new ELB and attach the said Target group

