02 Getting Started with JSP

Contents
06 JSP and Servlets Overview
07 FAQ Are JSP and Servlets still used in F7 ... ummm yep
08 Setting Up the Development Environment Overview
09 Installing Tomcat on MS Windows
10 Install Tomcat on Mac
11 Installing Eclipse on MS Windows
12 Install Eclipse on Mac
13 COnnecting Eclipse to Tomcat
14 FAQ HELP - Cant Start Tomcat - Ports are in Use








06 JSP and Servlets Overview

Topics
1. What are Web Applications?
2. What are JSP and Servlets?
3. What types of apps can you create?

What are Web Applications
 > A website is where the HTML pages are generated dynamically BASED on the user's actions

JSPs and Servlets
 > Java code that runs on the web server
 > Reads user's actions ... normally from HTML form
 > Performs the work
 > Returns an HTML page that is generated DYNAMICALLY
 > JSPs and Servlets are KEY COMPONENTS of the Java Enterprise Edition (Java EE)
 > Popular MVC frameworks are actually built on top of JSP and Servlets
	- Spring
	- JSF
	- Struts






07 FAQ Are JSP and Servlets still used in F7 ... ummm yep

FAQ: Are JSP and Servlets still used in 2017?
Question: I Would like to know if JSP and Servlet Still used in Real world applications in 2016?
Answer: Yes, JSP and Servlets are used in the real world in 2016. Here's a link where you can get details and real world case studies / reviews.
		- https://real-world-java-ee.zeef.com/arjan.tijms

Question: I heard about JSP and Servlet are no longer supported by Oracle, This is why I asked this question.
Answer: Servlets and JSP are supported by Oracle. Take a look at the Java EE 7 page at the Oracle website.  This is the current version of Java EE 7.
		- www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javaee/tech/index.html









08 Setting Up the Development Environment Overview

Topics
1. Required Software
2. High-level steps

Prerequisite
JDK

Required Software
1. Java Application Server - Tomcat
2. Java Integrated Development Environment - Eclipse







09 Installing Tomcat on MS Windows

STEPS using Executable Installer
1. Download executable of the Tomcat installer
2. Run the exe file
	> provide a credential, we may need it when accessing Manager page of Tomcat
3. After installing and starting tomcat, visit localhost:8080 to check if Tomcat is runnign


STEPS using the Tomcat content files
1. Download the compressed Tomcat files
2. Extract the compressed file
3. Execute the startup.sh script file insie the bin folder of the Tomcat files using any SHELL
4. Comfirm that its running by checking localhost:8080


Stopping the Tomcat
1. Go to Services
2. Find the Apache Tomcat service
3. Stop the service









10 Install Tomcat on Mac
11 Installing Eclipse on MS Windows

Installing Eclipse
 > either use the executable file or the compressed zip file of the Eclipse
 > for executable, just run the file
 > for compressed, just extract the file
 > you can then go to the content and run the .exe file of eclipse to run it






12 Install Eclipse on Mac
13 Connecting Eclipse to Tomcat

BENEFITS
1. Start Tomcat from Eclipse
2. Easily deploy applications directly to Tomcat

Starting a Tomcat Server in Eclipse
1. Open Eclipse
2. Go to the "Servers" section
3. Add New Server
4. Choose Apache -> Tomcat 9.0 (or tomcat version that you started), then click next
5. In next window, specify where the Tomcat is installed
	- by default its in C:/Program Files/Apache Software Foundation/Tomcat x.x/
6. In next window, it defines the Applications in Workspace that you want to run in Tomcat Server
7. After all of that, you should see a Tomcat Server in the Servers section




14 FAQ HELP - Cant Start Tomcat - Ports are in Use